On Presence, with their minds now placed in equipoise,They’re in the presence of the traits
of buddhahood.Dependent rising is the fact they now perceive –And reach cessation, resting
in intelligence. (6.1)

A single sighted person may with ease escortThe blind in scores wherever they should need to
go.And likewise, for these virtues that possess no sight,It’s insight that can shepherd them
to victorhood. (6.2)

As he was one who reached the deepest dharmic truthsRelying on the scriptures and through reasoning,By
following the system of Nāgārjuna,As found within his works, I shall proceed to
speak. (6.3)

Some common people, when they hear of emptiness,Will find that great delight comes surging from
within,A joy so fervent, filling up their eyes with tears,And causing every single hair
to stand on end. (6.4)Such ones possess the seed of the awakened mind,Are vessels for the
teachings on reality.They should receive instructions on the ultimate truth,

As they will see related qualities emerge. (6.5)A person who will always live by discipline,Who
gives in generosity and cultivatesCompassion, trains in tolerance, and dedicatesHis virtue
to awakening for beings’ sake; (6.6)Who for the bodhisattvas shows sincere respect,

And is insightful in the ways profound and vast;In due course such a person gains the Joyous
ground.If this is your objective, hearken to this path. (6.7)

It can’t come from itself, and how from other things?Can’t come from both, how could it be without
a cause?

If it came from itself there would be nothing gained.What is produced, produced once more –
that makes no sense. (6.8)

To think that what’s produced is then produced againWould mean that sprouts and such could never
be procured.The seed would be produced until the end of time –How could what will destroy
it ever come to be? (6.9)

A sprout distinct in shape, hue, taste, strength, ripening,And different from its cause, could
not exist for you.

Its former likeness left behind as it adoptsAnother form, what’s left of its identity? (6.10)

