Misguided ones belive the self consumes and lasts,Is uncreative, and lacks features or pursuits.The
differences between the schools of TīrthikasAre based on minor variations on this
theme. (6.121)

Since it is unborn, like a barren woman’s son,There cannot be a self like that of which you
speak,It cannot be the basis for the sense of self –As even relative that would not be allowed.
(6.122)

And since its qualities that one may find describedWithin the various scriptures of the TīrthikasAre
contradicted when they argue it’s unborn,These features will amount to nothing in
the end. (6.123)

There is therefore no self distinct from aggregates,Since it can’t be perceived without the
aggregates.Since they know no such thing and still think there’s a self,The worldly wouldn’t
claim the ego is thus based. (6.124)

Through aeons born among for instance animals,They would not think it unproduced and permanent.Yet
still they would be harbouring a sense of self.There is therefore no self distinct
from aggregates. (6.125)

Some say no self is found distinct from aggregates,The reference for self-view is thus the aggregates.While
some insist all five support the view of self,Some others will insist it is
the mind alone. (6.126)

The aggregates are multiple, so if they areThe self, the consequence would be a lot of selves.The
self is then a substance, and can be observed,And what you can engage is not a fallacy.
(6.127)

Nirvana would be the destruction of the self.Before, it would arise and vanish all the time.Without
an agent the result would not exist.Distinct are culprit and experiencing side. (6.128)

‘It’s really one continuum, thus we’re not at fault’ –The problems with continua were shown
before.The aggregates or mind as self thus makes not sense;The world as finite and so forth
was not endorsed. (6.129)

For you, when yogis understand the lack of self,All things would then lose their existence certainly.If
it is an eternal self that is dismissed,Then neither mind nor aggregates can be
the self. (6.130)

