The chariot has no existence, and withoutAn owner of the parts, its parts cannot exist.Like
parts that vanish when a chariot is burnt,Are parts whose owner has been scorched by reason’s
flames. (6.161)

Just so the world at large agrees the self is basedUpon the aggregates, the elements and onThe
sense fields, it is held to be what grasps these things.The grasping is the act and is
the actor too. (6.162)

It is not real, thus not a constant entity,Is not inconstant, has no birth and no decay.Such
qualities as permanence do not apply.It’s not the same, nor something that is quite distinct.
(6.163)

This self – the sense of ego that is always feltBy every kind of being, and the sense of ‘mine’Which
is all that relates to it – confusion spawnsAs customary fact when left unanalysed.
(6.164)

Without a maker there is nothing made,And thus without an ‘I’ there is no ‘mine.’And with the
view that ‘I’ and ‘mine’ are void,It’s liberation that the yogis reach. (6.165)

A pot, a blanket, straw mats, armies, woods, a necklace, or a tree,A house, a cart, a cottage,
or else anything that it may beShould likewise be acknowledged as they’re generally made
out to be,Because the Mighty Sage would not with normal people disagree. (6.166)

The parts and whole, the traits and qualified, the wish and he who wants,The features, featured,
fuel and fire, and all pairs like these are whenExamined like the cart shown to exist
in none of seven ways.And yet, according to the general consensus they exist. (6.167)

A cause will only be a cause when there’s a product it has made.If it does not produce results,
it lacks that which makes it a cause.Results will likewise only come about when there
exists a cause.So tell me then, which one derives from which? Which is the first to come?
(6.168)

If you suggest that there is contact when a cause makes a result,Then they’re a single force;
the maker and result are not distinct.If they’re apart, non-causes are not different from
what is the cause.Discarding these two options there’s no other notion possible. (6.169)

But if your cause produces no result, results do not exist.And causes that have no results are
not as causes justified.But since these two are both just like illusions I am not at faultIn
granting that the factual things of worldly life can still appear. (6.170)

